#Coursera: Getting and Cleaning Data - Course Project
This data set hase been created for the Coursera's Getting data and cleaning Course Project. This is a subset of the dataset that was generated by Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

The orignial data set was constructed with the data collected from the experiments that have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

The original data set can be downloaded here: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

#For each record in the original data set it has

- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

For the course project, we have extracted all the mean and standard deviation variables from the 561 vector from both the training and test data sets and have combined them into one single data set along with the subject and the activity columns.

We also created a second data set which has average values of all the mean and standard deviation features for every combination of subject and the activity they performed. 

#The dataset includes the following files:

- 'course_data_set_features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.

- 'features.txt': List of all variables which are mean and standard deviation of the features.

- 'output/mean_and_standard_deviations.csv': Data set which has the mean and standard deviation of feature variables

- 'output/averages_features.csv': Data set which has average values of all the mean and standard deviation features for every combination of subject and the activity they performed

